CDS-73790 (#2534)
harness/developer-hub: docs/platform/12_Variables-and-Expressions/add-a-variable.md

To enable this setting, go to **Account Setting > Account Resources > Default Settings > Pipeline**, and then set the **Export Service Variables as Env Variables** setting to `true`.

When you enable this setting, service variables are available as Bash variables in a Shell Script step. You can access the service variables like you access any Bash variables. For example, the service variable, `var1` is available for use in a Shell Script step as `$var1`.

When you [add a service](#use-an-account-org-or-project-variable-in-a-service-variable), you can select variables of type, **String**, **Secret**, or **Number**. 

Let's consider an example where you have added the following service variables: 

| **Variable name** | **Type** | **Value** |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `svar1` | String | normalValue |
| `svar2` | String | value-with-hyphen |
| `svar3` | String | value_with_underscores |
| `secretServiceVar` | Secret | `yourSecret` |
| `nvar1` | Number | 1 |
| `svar4` | String | abc%def%123 |
| `svar5$abc` | String | key_With_Dollar |
| `svar6` | String | abc,ghj,klk |

> In your Shell Script step, you can export these service variables as environment variables using the Bash command `printenv`. 

Reviewer: printenv does not export these variables. Users can verify the presence of these variables using this command.

> In your Shell Script step, you can export these service variables as environment variables using the Bash command `printenv`. 

Author: ```suggestion
In your Shell Script step, you can export these service variables as environment variables if you had enabled the **Export Service Variables as Env Variables** setting.
```

Run the pipeline and see that the value of these service variables passed as environment variables.

<docimage path={require('./static/export-srv-var-as-env-var.png')} width="100%" height="100%" title="Click to view full size image" />  

> 

Reviewer: Can we also mention the limitation of exporting variables with special characters on remote host because of difference of mechanism of exporting these variables
`The shell script executing on remote hosts may cause issues exporting the correct value containing special characters due to bash.`

> 

Author: ```suggestion

**Limitations:** The shell script executing on remote hosts may not be able to export the correct value if you're using the special characters `-`, `_`, `$`, `%`, and spaces in Bash.
```

Now, when you run your Pipeline the referenced value is evaluated at runtime.

> ### Exporting service variables as environment variables in a Shell Script step

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Export service variables as environment variables in a Shell Script step
```

> Harness has introduced a new setting, **Export Service Variables as Env Variables** to export service variables as environment variables. This setting is available at account, organization, and project-levels.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the **Export Service Variables as Env Variables** setting to export service variables as environment variables. This setting is available at account, organization, and project-levels.
```

To enable this setting, go to **Account Setting > Account Resources > Default Settings > Pipeline**, and then set the **Export Service Variables as Env Variables** setting to `true`.

When you enable this setting, service variables are available as Bash variables in a Shell Script step. You can access the service variables like you access any Bash variables. For example, the service variable, `var1` is available for use in a Shell Script step as `$var1`.

> When you [add a service](#use-an-account-org-or-project-variable-in-a-service-variable), you can select variables of type, **String**, **Secret**, or **Number**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you [add a service](#use-an-account-org-or-project-variable-in-a-service-variable), you can select variables of type **String**, **Secret**, or **Number**. 
```

Let's consider an example where you have added the following service variables: 

| **Variable name** | **Type** | **Value** |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `svar1` | String | normalValue |
| `svar2` | String | value-with-hyphen |
| `svar3` | String | value_with_underscores |
| `secretServiceVar` | Secret | `yourSecret` |
| `nvar1` | Number | 1 |
| `svar4` | String | abc%def%123 |
| `svar5$abc` | String | key_With_Dollar |
| `svar6` | String | abc,ghj,klk |

In your Shell Script step, you can export these service variables as environment variables if you had enabled the **Export Service Variables as Env Variables** setting.

:::info Limitation

> Shell script executing on remote hosts cannot export the correct value if you're using special characters such as `-`, `_`, `$`, `%`, and spaces in Bash.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Shell scripts executing on remote hosts cannot export the correct value if you're using special characters such as `-`, `_`, `$`, `%`, and spaces in Bash.
```

> Shell script executing on remote hosts may not be able to export the correct value if you're using the special characters `-`, `_`, `$`, `%`, and spaces in Bash.

Author: ```suggestion
Shell script executing on remote hosts cannot export the correct value if you're using special characters such as `-`, `_`, `$`, `%`, and spaces in Bash.
```

> The shell script executing on remote hosts may not be able to export the correct value if you're using the special characters `-`, `_`, `$`, `%`, and spaces in Bash.

Author: ```suggestion
Shell script executing on remote hosts may not be able to export the correct value if you're using the special characters `-`, `_`, `$`, `%`, and spaces in Bash.
```

:::

> Run the pipeline and see the value of these service variables passed as environment variables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you run the pipeline, you can see the value of the service variables passed as environment variables.
```
